Consultant profile Bård Lind Senior Architect Phone: +47 93234963 E-mail: bard.lind@altran.com Age: 46 Years of experience: 24 Profile Bård takes great interest in Internet of Sensors. He has for many years seen the value of observing, and visualizing data from independent sensors. The knowledge these sensors convey from real life measurements from critical business processes might be the difference of a failed business, or a successful one. Roles Developer, Architect, TechLead, Dpt.Mnt Leader Technologies experienced SOA, Java, Databases, NoSQL, J2EE, Spring, SpringMVC, Spring Webservices, Hibernate, Lotus Domino, DB2, mySql, Sybase, Websphere, Tomcat, Maven, OpenESB, GraphDb, JDBC, Datatabases, OSWorkflow, Sybase, Oracle, My Sql, Ms-Sql, Oracle SOA Suite, VoiceXML, AIX, Solaris, UML, CTI, Lucene, Solr, Graph Theory, Unstructured Data, WebService, REST, TopLink, Hibernate, SQL, Perl, Python,DevOps,APM, Performance, Neo4J, Facebook Graph, QT, Embedded Communications, Jira, Continous Deployment, RFID, NFC, Java 3D,GigaSpaces,Dropwizard, Ratpack, Whydah,Docker,IoT,Sensors Bård Lind 1/6 2016-01-28 Experience Senior Developer and Architect Period: 2016 Jan - 2016 Mar Client: CSC SICS- Reinsurance Management Solutions SICS is the world’s leading software for reinsurers and insurers who write commercial risks. Yet, SICS was missing propper search facilities. The goal of this assignment is to implement Solr search, and then integrate this into SICS Technologies/Methods: Solr, Java Senior Architect and Developer Period: 2015 Jan - 2015 Apr Client: NMD, Automatic Orderingsystem Create a service to fetch configuration from Pharmacies's in-shop system. This service will present the actual status found in the Pharmacies. Later on we will send config update to these pharmacies. Technologies/Methods: Micro Services, Cloud, Windows Services, Java Senior Architect, Tech Lead Period: 2015 May - 2015 Client: Synaptic Technologies AS & Nornir AS, ThingyNet The project developes a platform for sharing Internet of Things data. The platform is built on a radical new design facilitating high number of connected clients. Synx BIOS is an distributed operating system kernel for the semantic web. The kernel enables bidirectional Linked Data for the web and is backward compatible with the World Wide Web.The new self scaling linking network is called Real Time Web and will be an open and free dataspace for anyone/anything that connects to the web. Technologies/Methods: Gigaspaces, Netty, AsyncCommunications,Dropwizard, Docker, Microservices,IoT Senior Architect Period: 2014 Jan - 2014 Dec Client: Tomra, Pantemaskin Kommunikasjon og Admin Introduces better access control on data from Recycling equipment. Overview of properties in the reverse vending machines and representing them as graph. Technologies/Methods: Graph, Neo4j, Continous Deployment Senior Architect Period: 2014 Aug - 2014 Dec Client: Tomra - User Identity Backend (IAM) Integration of Whydah IAM product in Receipt Conrol. Whydah is controlling the access both for the users, and the services involved. Any service will have to authenticate to be able to access the external resources it is using. The access between user and Bård Lind 2/6 2016-01-28 application is issued on an individual connection. This will prevent abuse based on stealing eg username and password. Technologies/Methods: IAM, OAuth 2.0, Token, Json, XML, Micro Services, Cloud Senior Developer and Architect Period: 2013 Mar - 2013 Jun Client: Tomra, React - Social Sharing Develop system that connects customer and mortgage note. The purpose is to increase the security of bottles and cans in markets that lack economic incentives. The challenge is machine to machine communication and human-to-machine via mobile. Feel free to react.tomra.com/ Technologies/Methods: Continous Deployment, Embedded Communications, Facebook Graph, QT, ActiveMq, Spring, Manager Architecture, Senior SOA Architect Period: 2012 Jan - 2012 Sep Client: Canal Digital The head of a department of seven permanent and contracted architects. Should operationalize Canal Digital's strategy on SOA. The tasks include educating department staff. Day to day technical guidance and production of architectural documentation. Interaction with the business is very central to establishing trust. Technologies/Methods: Java, AppServere, Oracle, MS-Sql. Oracle SOA Suite. Kommunikasjon via Wiki, UML, Sekvensdiagram, plansjer på vegg. Prosesstyring via scrum Core-group, Technical guru Period: 2011 Jan - 2011 Dec Client: Telenor Norway - COS 2.0 Performance enhancement Premise. Tech guru. Got introduced a radical new way to handle read operations. The project began by defining the Use-cases, the SLA service level. These use-cases were designed by business. Bard was leading on to introduce Search and Graph as a tool for pure read operations. Technologies/Methods: Neo4J, Solr, Lucene, Messaging, Graph, Gradle, Spring Architect/developer Period: 2009 Jul - 2011 Feb Client: Telenor Mobil - CTI telefoni System architect and developer of CTI telephony system. CTI-Mobile is made with Java and Event Driven Architecture as the base. This is implemented in Spring MVC. Technologies/Methods: Spring, Sprng MVC, Maven, Java, Nexus, Voice XML Developer and Service Design Period: 2009 Sep - 2010 Mar Client: Telenor - M2M 12 siffer Describe the design for the introduction of 12-digit mobile number in CTI solution. Bård Lind 3/6 2016-01-28 Program Trusted solution for CTI in Java and Spring MV Technologies/Methods: Java, Maven, Spring, Spring MVC, Nexus, Solaris, Ubuntu, Voice XML Chief Architect Period: 2007 Aug - 2008 Jan Client: Western Ceco - Simmulator Framework WesternGeco is the world's largest supplier of geophysical services, it's crew and most comprehensive center for processing data in the field. The project we performed was associated with WesternGeco training center in Oslo and had as main task to provide better systems for simulation. Bard was responsible for the architecture that was selected. Furthermore, he served as senior developer and mentor for the other developers on the team. The project was also the base for "OW test model" designed. Technologies/Methods: Auto.Test,C, Java, OS Workflow, Seismic Data RFID Scientist Period: 2006 Jan - 2006 Oct Client: javaBin, RFID project RFID visa upp för användning på Java Zone. Var här med att lösning arkitekt, utvecklare och arrangör. I projektet ingår En annan Spring, Hibernate, maven2, Java 3D och baseras på Mustang (Java 6). Technologies/Methods: RFID, NFC, Spring, Hibernate, Maven2, Java 3D,Java 6 Workplaces Senior Architect, Mentor Period: 2013 Feb - ongoing Workplace: Altran Norway Is starting a new department, Software Engineering. Focus on reducing the time from idee production set funskjonalitet. Higher degree of automation, lower project cost. Manager Architecture Period: 2012 Jan - 2013 Jan Workplace: Telenor/Canal Digital Develop SOA architecture for Canal Digital Satelite. Working with Pakistani developers, and responsible for multi-national utveklare competency. System Area Architect Mobile Value Chain Period: 2009 Jul - 2012 Jan Workplace: Telenor Norway Strategic architect responsible for all customer and partner applications in the mobile value chain in Telenor. System Architect, Senior Developer Java. CTI-Mobile Mentor for fresh developers. Academic pushing for faster and more efficient utvikling.Systemarkitekt, Senior Developer Java. Bård Lind 4/6 2016-01-28 CTI-Mobile Open Source and Commuity- evangelist internally and externally for Telenor. Telenor global CRM strategy: Engaged in CRM strategy at Telenor globally through Telenor Contest Program Senior Developer, Architect, Mentor Period: 2007 Jan - 2009 Jun Workplace: Objectware Central Objectware its focus on SOA and Enterprise architecutre. Establishes courses, and concepts that are still ahead of our time. Mentor for fresh developers. Academic pushing for faster and more efficient development. Open Source and Commuity- evangelist Developer, Operations and Customer Care Period: 1996 Jun - 2000 Jun Workplace: IBM Responsible for applications, Java and Domino. Remote operation of AIX and Domino. Customer with remote operation of the server and the PC. Education Bachelor/Cand. Mag Period: 1996 Jul - 1996 Jun School: Lillehammer University Centre Personell development and leadership Avionicsenginerring Personell development and leadership Period: 1995 Aug - 1996 Jun School: Lillehammer University Centre Personell development and leadership Compyuter of Sience- Avionics Period: 1991 Aug - 1995 Jun School: Stavanger University Centre Computers in aeroplanes. Focus on security and real time computation. Other Teaching Spring • Co-teacher for Spring, Spring MVC and Spring WebServices in 2007. Topics covered included: - Spring, Spring MVC, Spring ORM/Hibernate, Spring Remoting, Spring Webservices Languages: Norweigan, english